I'm infatuated
with this concept of impossible.
So infatuated, that I have made it
my life's mission
to make things not impossible.
And the way that I go about doing that
is this mash-up of technology and story.
Technology, for me,
my past life as a producer,
was this space of animation
and design and graphics
and things that came out of a computer,
but in a 3D way or a 2D way.
But the world that I play in
now is technology,
but it's technology
for the sake of humanity.
And what that means is:
how do you take something
and crack it open
and modify it
and zip-tie it or duct-tape
it back together
and maybe reprogram it in a way
so that it accomplishes
a fundamental social and human need?
And the way that I go about doing that
is that, once you create that,
then you make it
accessible to people, right?
If you make something
and no one has access to it,
then what's the point?
So then we try to get that
out there as much as we can, right?
The story side, I look through this lens
called "Help one, help many."
And what this means is,
if I said to you guys today,
"Who here wants to help me cure hunger?"
Who here has a clue how to do that?
And you're like, "Oh, yeah, um, yeah."
Oh, you do. Good. Let's talk after this.
(Laughter)
But that's big, right?
That's really, really big.
But if I said, "Hey,
when I was coming in today,
it was cold and there was a guy outside
and he looked hungry,
he looked like he needed something to eat.
Let's everybody chip in a buck,
everybody put a buck in a hat,
and let's go buy the guy a sandwich."
Now we've helped one person,
but maybe we put in a couple bucks.
Now we can buy a couple sandwiches,
more sandwiches for people.
That's how it starts to spread.
You help one person, and then
it starts to spread to many.
So the lens that I look through
with any project I'm about to take on,
I look through this lens of,
who is the one?
Who is the one person
I focus that story on,
that can then help many, many people?
So I'm out to dinner,
and a friend says, "Hey, you've got
to check this guy out named Dr. Tom."
So I went home and I researched him,
and what I found about this guy
is he's this doctor
in the Nuba Mountains, which is
this area between Sudan and South Sudan.
And he is the only doctor
within a 1,500 mile radius
and he literally does everything
from deliver babies to appendectomies.
If it's medical,
he's the only guy who can do it.
And so I'm learning about this guy,
and later on in the article it says,
you know, the one thing he hates to do
is to perform amputations.
Which begs the question,
why is he performing amputations?
And what I learned is that the area
of the Nuba Mountains,
especially the area where he is,
is constantly being bombarded
by President Bashir,
the current reigning president of Sudan.
And what he does is he runs
this campaign of terror
over the public there, and he bombs them
with rolling these 55-gallon drums
filled with jet fuel and shrapnel
out of the back of these big
turboprop planes.
It's horrible.
They hit the ground, they make a crater,
shrapnel goes flying everywhere,
and so if you're in that path
of the shrapnel,
not doing so good.
So because of that,
there's foxholes everywhere.
People will jump into caves,
there's this system.
And then when the dust settles,
people come out
and they carry on about their day.
But there was one particular amputation
that Dr. Tom had to do,
and he talked about
a young boy named Daniel
who was out tending
his family's goats and cows,
he heard the bombers come,
and he was out in the field,
so there was no foxhole to jump in.
And so he wrapped his arms
around a tree that was closest to him.
The bomb went off not far from him.
The tree protected his body
from the blast,
but it blew off his arms.
And so I'm reading this story,
and I was like, "Ohhhh."
And what got me is what he said
when he woke up.
He realized he was now
an armless Sudanese boy --
and it's hard enough to stay alive
in Sudan with arms --
and he said, "If I could die, I would.
Because now I'm going to be such
a burden to my family."
Look, everybody here
has experienced despair before,
but can you imagine actually
wanting to be dead
because you don't want
to be a pain to your parents?
So, I'm reading this.
This is all happening
at my kitchen counter,
and just down the hallway,
these guys are asleep.
My guys.
And I couldn't imagine them waking up
with that feeling of, like,
"Oh, I wish I was dead."
So I have a process.
And my process is:
you commit,
then you figure out how the heck
you're going to pull it off.
(Laughter)
And I read this, and I saw this
about this young boy named Daniel,
and I said, "I've got to do something.
I don't know what,
but I've got to do something."
So the way I work
and the way I kind of look for things is,
I start to go, "Wait a second, I read
something or I did something about that."
And we had just done an article
about this brilliant carpenter
in South Africa,
who accidentally cut his fingers off
in a table saw accident,
and had to 3D print fingers for himself.
And I'm like, "Wait --
if that guy's printing fingers,
maybe we can come over
and use that finger thing
to make an arm for Daniel.
Maybe there's something there."
So when you see things
that are tangential or relative
to what your problem is,
that's what I call
"morsels of permission."
You look for little morsels
and bits and bobs here
and you start to pull those together
and put them all into a pile
and that's your end solution.
So I invited all these
brilliant people to my house,
people way smarter than myself,
and we started to explore different ways
that we could make an arm for Daniel.
And we played around
with different types of plastic.
We played with 3D printing.
We played with even balsa wood.
And the result of the weekend ...
was a gigantic failure.
Nothing worked.
Here's what kind of a failure it was.
A friend of ours came over
and she was missing a left arm.
We printed her a right arm.
(Laughter)
That gives you a taste test
of how the weekend went.
So I was going, right? I'm going.
And Richard, the carpenter
who had cut his fingers off,
had actually generously
come out to help us,
and he said, "Mate,
I don't think you should go.
First of all, you don't know
what you're getting yourself into.
Sudan is gnarly,
and you are going to be a big, tall,
bald, shining target walking around."
And he goes, "And there's this thing --
you don't have an arm.
There's that thing, too."
He said, "You're still going, aren't you."
And I said, "Yeah, I've got to go.
I'm going. Tickets are bought. I'm going."
And he goes, "All right,
I figured you'd say that,
So here's the deal: why don't you come
to my place in South Africa,
I'll teach you how to 3D print,
I'll teach you everything I know,
and then, if you're ready,
then off you go."
I said, "All right, deal."
So I hopped in a plane.
I was petrified because
when I got on the plane,
I didn't know how to 3D print.
I'm going to Sudan
to make something for this boy
who I've never met,
but I'd never made it before.
But I'm getting on this plane,
so here we go. Geronimo!
I hop on, I go to Richard's place,
he teaches me everything he knows:
he teaches me how to 3D print,
teaches me how to work with hands,
teaches me how to work with amputees,
and the details of the fingers
and how everything works.
And he teaches me.
So we're like, "All right,
here we go, it's working."
He shows me how to do it.
So I say goodbye to his family,
I hop on a plane,
I land in Sudan.
That's not the plane.
(Laughter)
Otherwise, I wouldn't
be in front of you right now.
I land in Sudan, and the organization
that's with us takes us over
to this little shed that we called home,
and we just started to work.
We started to work, and we cleaned it up
and started getting it set up.
And we started to print,
and started to make the mold
of the arm for Daniel,
and started to figure out
how it would work and how it would fit.
I was nervous. I'm like,
"I've never done this before.
You know, there's a thing in carpentry:
you measure twice, cut once.
I'm measuring seven times
and cutting once.
And we go through this process,
and literally everything
that could go wrong did.
You guys know how 3D printing works?
The filament -- it was so hot
it was melting to itself
before it got into the 3D printer.
The bugs were dive-bombing
the printer and jamming it up.
Everything was going wrong --
the electricity was surging --
everything was going wrong.
But every day we'd wake up,
and there's Daniel,
and he's like, "What's up?
How's it going, big, shiny, tall guy?"
(Laughter)
And so we just kept pushing through it.
And then four days to the day
that I read the article about Dr. Tom,
we made an arm for Daniel.
And Daniel fed himself
for the first time in two years.
(Applause)
Thank you.
And it was
awesome.
It was awesome to watch him
be able to now have that independence.
But we didn't show up
just to help Daniel, right?
It's, how do you make this bigger?
How do you help many people?
So, we didn't have a lot of time left,
but we started to teach
some of the locals in his village
how to use these printers.
I started to teach them.
And they'd never seen a 3D printer before.
And we taught and we pushed them
through all of this stuff.
I ended up having to get on a plane
and fly back to Los Angeles.
When I got on the plane, I'm like,
"I hope it works.
But I didn't have enough time with them.
Is it going to work?"
And I landed back in Los Angeles,
and I got off the plane -- it took me
four days to get back --
I landed, and I turned on my phone,
and Dr. Tom had sent me an email
and said, "Hey, hope the trip
back wasn't too bad,
but you'll be psyched to know
while you were in the air,
two more arms were made."
And I'm walking through LAX just like,
"Yeah! Yes!"
And people are kind of looking at me,
as they're walking their kids
and their strollers by.
(Laughter)
And the crazy thing is,
that we ended up creating the world's
first 3D printing prosthetic laboratory.
Most arms cost 15 grand.
The Daniel arm cost 100 bucks!
And it's cheaper now!
How did we pull it off
and why did we pull it off?
We found our one.
Right? We found our one.
So the question that I ask you guys today
in that concept of help one, help many:
Who is your one?
And who is your Daniel?
(Applause)
Thank you, guys.